## Algorithms for generating permutations


### About this algorithm (i.js)

#### Purpose

Knowing the value of nPr does not tell you what the permutations are. This code is about producing the actual permutations of sequential numerical strings in order to use them for something practical.

##### Example
This code produces 123,132,213,231,312,321 given a starting sequence of 123.

#### Subtraction

The algorithm makes use of the idea that subtracting the distinct integers in any permutation from (n+1) yields a new permutation. This subtraction never generates values not in the set of related permutations. This idea of working with only numbers in the set comes at the price of having to perform operations on n digits for each permutation.

##### Subtracting Rules
* if (a - b) = 0, a = a
* if (a - b) > 0, a - b
* if (a - b) < 0, ( n+1 ) + (a - b)

##### Example:

```
	  5 5 5 5	
	- 1 2 3 4 â† Each digit is subracted from n+1 (5)
	= 4 3 2 1
	
	  4 4 4 4	  2 2 2 2
	- 1 2 3 4	- 4 3 2 1
	= 3 2 1 4	= 3 4 2 1
```

#### Duplicates

The rest of the code manages duplicates. Certain permutations, when subtracted from certain numbers, are mirrors of each other. Other duplicates are generated by different combinations of minuend (top number) and subtrahend (bottom number).



#### Performance

i.js is approximately as fast as the nested for-loops created by ./perl/i.pl up to **n = 9**.

### Other uses for the subtractor algorithm

An array counter can be used to track permutations where recursion (or similar approaches) cause memory problems. This is useful in the browser context.